README.md, before:

# Universal Recon - Bar Directory Reconnaissance Tool

[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/bar-directory-recon.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/bar-directory-recon/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-33%20passed-green.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/badge/release-v2.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/releases/tag/v2.0)
[![Bootstrap Ready](https://img.shields.io/badge/bootstrap-ready-success.svg)](./alienware_bootstrap_bundle.zip)

## Quick demo

![bdr demo](docs/assets/bdr-demo.gif)

```bash
# install
pip install bar-directory-recon

# basic usage
bdr --version
bdr doctor --no-exec
```

## Workflow Status

[![Lint](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/lint/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![Test](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Docs Build](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/docs-build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/docs-build.yml)
[![Nightly Scheduler](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/nightly-scheduler/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/nightly-scheduler.yml)
[![Benchmark](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/benchmark/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/benchmark.yml)
[![Security Scan](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/security-scan/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/security-scan.yml)
[![Cross-Device Bootstrap](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/cross-device-bootstrap/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/cross-device-bootstrap.yml)

## Overview

Universal Recon is a comprehensive bar directory reconnaissance and automation tool designed for legal professional data extraction. It provides a modular plugin system for extracting, validating, and analyzing data from legal bar directories and professional websites.

---

## Key Features

- **Plugin-Based Architecture**: Modular system with specialized extractors for different data types
- **Social Media Detection**: Automated discovery of LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram profiles
- **Firm Data Extraction**: Intelligent parsing of law firm information and contact details
- **ML-Powered Classification**: Machine learning-based content labeling and categorization
- **Validation Framework**: Comprehensive data validation and quality assessment tools
- **Analytics Suite**: Risk assessment, trend analysis, and reporting capabilities
- **Cross-Platform Support**: Works on Windows and Linux with automated environment detection

---

## Cross-Device Bootstrap

### Alienware Device Setup

For setting up this project on a fresh Alienware device to match the ASUS golden image configuration:

📦 **Download Bootstrap Bundle**: [`alienware_bootstrap_bundle.zip`](./alienware_bootstrap_bundle.zip) *(27.4KB - Updated July 30, 2025)*
**SHA256**: `2999b1ac6dc9d94045778fee902c2f484b65c3514caa737f9e033c2cff626b85`

**Quick Setup (Windows)**:
```powershell
# 1. Download and extract the bootstrap bundle
# 2. Run as Administrator
.\bootstrap_alienware.ps1

# Custom workspace location
.\bootstrap_alienware.ps1 -WorkspaceRoot "D:\Development"

# Skip validation (faster setup)
.\bootstrap_alienware.ps1 -SkipValidation
```

**Quick Setup (Linux/macOS)**:
```bash
# 1. Make executable and run
chmod +x bootstrap_alienware.sh
./bootstrap_alienware.sh

# Custom workspace location
./bootstrap_alienware.sh /opt/development --skip-validation
```

**What the Bootstrap Does**:
- ✅ Clones repository at v2.0 tag
- ✅ Sets up Python 3.13 virtual environment
- ✅ Installs all 55+ required packages
- ✅ Creates device-specific configuration
- ✅ Sets up complete directory structure
- ✅ Generates validation report
- ✅ Configures automation framework
- ✅ Sets up cross-device compatibility

**Bundle Contents** *(8 files, 27.4KB total)*:
- `bootstrap_alienware.ps1` - PowerShell bootstrap script (529 lines)
- `bootstrap_alienware.sh` - Bash bootstrap script (523 lines)
- `.env.template` - Environment variables template
- `config/device_profile-Alienware.json` - Device-specific configuration
- `validate_alienware_bootstrap.py` - Bootstrap validation script
- `validate_env_state.py` - Environment validation script
- `alienware_playbook.ps1` - Complete automation playbook (675 lines)
- `ENV_READY_REPORT.md` - Current environment status report

**Documentation**:
- � [Environment Readiness Report](./ENV_READY_REPORT.md) - **95% parity achieved**
- 🔧 [Phase 3 Roadmap](./docs/PHASE3_ROADMAP.md) - Advanced features and planning
- ✅ [ASUS Completion Report](./ASUS_PHASE2_COMPLETION_REPORT.md) - Phase 2 wrap-up status

**Requirements**:
- Python 3.13+
- Git 2.40+
- 5GB free disk space
- Administrator privileges (Windows) / sudo access (Linux)
- Internet connection for package downloads

**Expected Setup Time**: 10-15 minutes for complete environment

**Validation Status**: ✅ **95% Golden Image Parity** - Ready for deployment

---

## Getting Started

### Requirements

- Windows 10/11, PowerShell 5.1+
- OneDrive installed and configured
- Python 3.11+
- Admin rights for scheduled tasks

### Virtual Environment Setup

- Use `activate_venv.bat` (CMD) or `ActivateVenv.ps1` (PowerShell) to activate the Python environment.
- For full dev setup: `RunDevelopment.bat` or `StartDevPowerShell.bat`.
- To fix or recreate the venv: `fix_venv_activation.bat` and `InstallDependencies.bat`.

### Environment Variables

- `.env.work` and `.env.asus` are used for device-specific configs.
- `env_loader.py` auto-detects and loads the correct file.
- Only one `.env` is loaded per execution.

### First-Time Setup

1. Activate the venv and install dependencies.
2. Run `RunOneDriveAutomation.bat` and follow the menu.
3. For preview, use option 7; for full automation, use option 1.

---

## Automation Scripts

- **OneDriveAutomation.ps1**: Main entry for all tasks.
- **auto_git_commit.py**: Auto-commits and pushes to GitHub.
- **git_commit_and_notify.py**: Commits, pushes, and sends notifications.
- **notifier.py**: Handles all email notifications (HTML supported).
- **motion_task_creator.py**: Local integration with Motion App via Flask API.
- **health_check.py**: Verifies environment and variables.
- **log_rotator.py**: Archives old logs.

---

## Best Practices

- Always use `env_loader.py` for environment detection.
- Maintain only one version of each core script.
- Keep `.env` files in the project root.
- Log all actions for traceability.
- Deprecated: `.env` (generic), `token.pickle`, device-specific notifier scripts.

---

## Project Roadmap (Excerpt)

- [x] Unified .env management and loader
- [x] Centralized logging
- [x] AI-powered task automation (Motion App integration)
- [x] Git automation and notification
- [ ] Optional: Further AI enhancements and advanced analytics

---

## Contributors & Contact

- For setup help, see the archived Setup Instructions and Roadmap in `docs/archive/`.
- For issues, open a ticket or contact the maintainer.

---

## Data Hunter - Automated Discovery Module

The Data Hunter module provides automated discovery and download of property lists and inspection documents from municipal websites.

### Key Features

- **Automated Web Scanning**: Periodically crawls configured municipal websites
- **Smart File Detection**: Uses regex patterns to identify relevant documents
- **Intelligent Download Management**: Prevents duplicate downloads and manages file sizes
- **Multi-Source Support**: Configurable sources for easy expansion
- **Notification System**: Email, Slack, and console notifications for new discoveries
- **Pipeline Integration**: Suggests processing commands for new files

### Quick Start

```bash
# Test the system
python test_data_hunter.py

# Run discovery once
python src/data_hunter.py --run-once

# Start scheduled discovery (daily)
python src/data_hunter.py --schedule

# Windows users - use the batch script
RunDataHunter.bat
```

### Configuration

Edit `config/data_hunter_config.json` to:

- Add new municipal data sources
- Configure notification preferences
- Adjust download settings and file patterns
- Set scheduling preferences

### Supported Sources

Currently configured for:

- **Miami-Dade County**: Property appraiser and inspection lists
- **Broward County**: Building safety inspection programs
- **Palm Beach County**: Recertification and property lists

### Adding New Sources

To add a new city/county source:

```json
{
  "name": "New-City",
  "url": "https://newcity.gov/inspections",
  "patterns": [
    ".*inspection.*\\.pdf",
    ".*property.*list.*\\.pdf"
  ],
  "enabled": true,
  "check_frequency_hours": 24
}
```

### Notification Setup

**Email Notifications:**

```json
"email": {
  "enabled": true,
  "smtp_server": "smtp.gmail.com",
  "smtp_port": 587,
  "username": "your-email@gmail.com",
  "password": "your-app-password",
  "to_emails": ["recipient@example.com"]
}
```

**Slack Notifications:**

```json
"slack": {
  "enabled": true,
  "webhook_url": "https://hooks.slack.com/services/YOUR/WEBHOOK/URL"
}
```

### File Processing

Downloaded files are saved to `input/` with timestamped names:

```
inspection_list_20250709_120000_miami_dade.pdf
property_safety_20250709_120000_broward.xlsx
```

Process new files using existing pipeline scripts:

```bash
python unified_scraper.py --pdf input/filename.pdf
python final_hallandale_pipeline.py  # Adapt for other cities
```

---

*This README consolidates all previous documentation, setup guides, and roadmaps. For historical docs, see `docs/archive/`.*

Commit message:

docs: clarify doctor output and note 0.1.4 GA status (#331)
Co-authored-by: Samiat Quadir <samiat.quadir@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Universal Recon - Bar Directory Reconnaissance Tool

[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/bar-directory-recon.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/bar-directory-recon/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.11+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.11+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Tests](https://img.shields.io/badge/tests-33%20passed-green.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/badge/release-v2.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/releases/tag/v2.0)
[![Bootstrap Ready](https://img.shields.io/badge/bootstrap-ready-success.svg)](./alienware_bootstrap_bundle.zip)

## Quick demo

![bdr demo](docs/assets/bdr-demo.gif)

```bash
# install
pip install bar-directory-recon

# basic usage
bdr --version
bdr doctor --no-exec
```

> Note: `bdr doctor` may report some checks as `WARN` or `FAIL` when you install from PyPI. Those refer to optional, local-only diagnostics modules that are not shipped in the wheel and can be safely ignored in that environment.

## Workflow Status

[![Lint](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/lint/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![Test](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Docs Build](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/docs-build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/docs-build.yml)
[![Nightly Scheduler](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/nightly-scheduler/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/nightly-scheduler.yml)
[![Benchmark](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/benchmark/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/benchmark.yml)
[![Security Scan](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/security-scan/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/security-scan.yml)
[![Cross-Device Bootstrap](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/workflows/cross-device-bootstrap/badge.svg)](https://github.com/samiat-quadir/bar-directory-recon/actions/workflows/cross-device-bootstrap.yml)

## Overview

Universal Recon is a comprehensive bar directory reconnaissance and automation tool designed for legal professional data extraction. It provides a modular plugin system for extracting, validating, and analyzing data from legal bar directories and professional websites.

---

## Key Features

- **Plugin-Based Architecture**: Modular system with specialized extractors for different data types
- **Social Media Detection**: Automated discovery of LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram profiles
- **Firm Data Extraction**: Intelligent parsing of law firm information and contact details
- **ML-Powered Classification**: Machine learning-based content labeling and categorization
- **Validation Framework**: Comprehensive data validation and quality assessment tools
- **Analytics Suite**: Risk assessment, trend analysis, and reporting capabilities
- **Cross-Platform Support**: Works on Windows and Linux with automated environment detection

---

## Cross-Device Bootstrap

### Alienware Device Setup

For setting up this project on a fresh Alienware device to match the ASUS golden image configuration:

📦 **Download Bootstrap Bundle**: [`alienware_bootstrap_bundle.zip`](./alienware_bootstrap_bundle.zip) *(27.4KB - Updated July 30, 2025)*
**SHA256**: `2999b1ac6dc9d94045778fee902c2f484b65c3514caa737f9e033c2cff626b85`

**Quick Setup (Windows)**:
```powershell
# 1. Download and extract the bootstrap bundle
# 2. Run as Administrator
.\bootstrap_alienware.ps1

# Custom workspace location
.\bootstrap_alienware.ps1 -WorkspaceRoot "D:\Development"

# Skip validation (faster setup)
.\bootstrap_alienware.ps1 -SkipValidation
```

**Quick Setup (Linux/macOS)**:
```bash
# 1. Make executable and run
chmod +x bootstrap_alienware.sh
./bootstrap_alienware.sh

# Custom workspace location
./bootstrap_alienware.sh /opt/development --skip-validation
```

**What the Bootstrap Does**:
- ✅ Clones repository at v2.0 tag
- ✅ Sets up Python 3.13 virtual environment
- ✅ Installs all 55+ required packages
- ✅ Creates device-specific configuration
- ✅ Sets up complete directory structure
- ✅ Generates validation report
- ✅ Configures automation framework
- ✅ Sets up cross-device compatibility

**Bundle Contents** *(8 files, 27.4KB total)*:
- `bootstrap_alienware.ps1` - PowerShell bootstrap script (529 lines)
- `bootstrap_alienware.sh` - Bash bootstrap script (523 lines)
- `.env.template` - Environment variables template
- `config/device_profile-Alienware.json` - Device-specific configuration
- `validate_alienware_bootstrap.py` - Bootstrap validation script
- `validate_env_state.py` - Environment validation script
- `alienware_playbook.ps1` - Complete automation playbook (675 lines)
- `ENV_READY_REPORT.md` - Current environment status report

**Documentation**:
- � [Environment Readiness Report](./ENV_READY_REPORT.md) - **95% parity achieved**
- 🔧 [Phase 3 Roadmap](./docs/PHASE3_ROADMAP.md) - Advanced features and planning
- ✅ [ASUS Completion Report](./ASUS_PHASE2_COMPLETION_REPORT.md) - Phase 2 wrap-up status

**Requirements**:
- Python 3.13+
- Git 2.40+
- 5GB free disk space
- Administrator privileges (Windows) / sudo access (Linux)
- Internet connection for package downloads

**Expected Setup Time**: 10-15 minutes for complete environment

**Validation Status**: ✅ **95% Golden Image Parity** - Ready for deployment

---

## Getting Started

### Requirements

- Windows 10/11, PowerShell 5.1+
- OneDrive installed and configured
- Python 3.11+
- Admin rights for scheduled tasks

### Virtual Environment Setup

- Use `activate_venv.bat` (CMD) or `ActivateVenv.ps1` (PowerShell) to activate the Python environment.
- For full dev setup: `RunDevelopment.bat` or `StartDevPowerShell.bat`.
- To fix or recreate the venv: `fix_venv_activation.bat` and `InstallDependencies.bat`.

### Environment Variables

- `.env.work` and `.env.asus` are used for device-specific configs.
- `env_loader.py` auto-detects and loads the correct file.
- Only one `.env` is loaded per execution.

### First-Time Setup

1. Activate the venv and install dependencies.
2. Run `RunOneDriveAutomation.bat` and follow the menu.
3. For preview, use option 7; for full automation, use option 1.

---

## Automation Scripts

- **OneDriveAutomation.ps1**: Main entry for all tasks.
- **auto_git_commit.py**: Auto-commits and pushes to GitHub.
- **git_commit_and_notify.py**: Commits, pushes, and sends notifications.
- **notifier.py**: Handles all email notifications (HTML supported).
- **motion_task_creator.py**: Local integration with Motion App via Flask API.
- **health_check.py**: Verifies environment and variables.
- **log_rotator.py**: Archives old logs.

---

## Best Practices

- Always use `env_loader.py` for environment detection.
- Maintain only one version of each core script.
- Keep `.env` files in the project root.
- Log all actions for traceability.
- Deprecated: `.env` (generic), `token.pickle`, device-specific notifier scripts.

---

## Project Roadmap (Excerpt)

- [x] Unified .env management and loader
- [x] Centralized logging
- [x] AI-powered task automation (Motion App integration)
- [x] Git automation and notification
- [ ] Optional: Further AI enhancements and advanced analytics

---

## Contributors & Contact

- For setup help, see the archived Setup Instructions and Roadmap in `docs/archive/`.
- For issues, open a ticket or contact the maintainer.

---

## Data Hunter - Automated Discovery Module

The Data Hunter module provides automated discovery and download of property lists and inspection documents from municipal websites.

### Key Features

- **Automated Web Scanning**: Periodically crawls configured municipal websites
- **Smart File Detection**: Uses regex patterns to identify relevant documents
- **Intelligent Download Management**: Prevents duplicate downloads and manages file sizes
- **Multi-Source Support**: Configurable sources for easy expansion
- **Notification System**: Email, Slack, and console notifications for new discoveries
- **Pipeline Integration**: Suggests processing commands for new files

### Quick Start

```bash
# Test the system
python test_data_hunter.py

# Run discovery once
python src/data_hunter.py --run-once

# Start scheduled discovery (daily)
python src/data_hunter.py --schedule

# Windows users - use the batch script
RunDataHunter.bat
```

### Configuration

Edit `config/data_hunter_config.json` to:

- Add new municipal data sources
- Configure notification preferences
- Adjust download settings and file patterns
- Set scheduling preferences

### Supported Sources

Currently configured for:

- **Miami-Dade County**: Property appraiser and inspection lists
- **Broward County**: Building safety inspection programs
- **Palm Beach County**: Recertification and property lists

### Adding New Sources

To add a new city/county source:

```json
{
  "name": "New-City",
  "url": "https://newcity.gov/inspections",
  "patterns": [
    ".*inspection.*\\.pdf",
    ".*property.*list.*\\.pdf"
  ],
  "enabled": true,
  "check_frequency_hours": 24
}
```

### Notification Setup

**Email Notifications:**

```json
"email": {
  "enabled": true,
  "smtp_server": "smtp.gmail.com",
  "smtp_port": 587,
  "username": "your-email@gmail.com",
  "password": "your-app-password",
  "to_emails": ["recipient@example.com"]
}
```

**Slack Notifications:**

```json
"slack": {
  "enabled": true,
  "webhook_url": "https://hooks.slack.com/services/YOUR/WEBHOOK/URL"
}
```

### File Processing

Downloaded files are saved to `input/` with timestamped names:

```
inspection_list_20250709_120000_miami_dade.pdf
property_safety_20250709_120000_broward.xlsx
```

Process new files using existing pipeline scripts:

```bash
python unified_scraper.py --pdf input/filename.pdf
python final_hallandale_pipeline.py  # Adapt for other cities
```

---

*This README consolidates all previous documentation, setup guides, and roadmaps. For historical docs, see `docs/archive/`.*
